What is required to support a 2 hour RTO?

24/7 support team

Remote access to systems




1 - Minimum RTO for a single AZ outage

Failures are rare, but being prepared is the best approach always, so as a best practice, applications should design around potential failures. 
The RDS multi AZ configuration is the recommended approach for production environments due to its ability to support low RTO. 
Sometimes there are some customer workloads that do not require the level of HA provided by RDS Multi-AZ, these workloads might have more relaxed RTO and RPO requirements, and Single-AZ configurations might be sufficient to meet those needs. 
Each RDS instance runs on an EC2 instance backed by EBS volume for storage. RDS takes daily snapshots of the database, which are stored durable in S3 behind the scenes. Its also  regularly copies transactions logs to S3 up to 5-minutes intervals. 
RTO for recovery with an RDS Single-AZ instance failure can vary from minutes to hours, the duration depends on the size of the database and the failure and recovery approach. 

    *Recoverable instance failures

RDS automatically tries to launch a new instance in the same Availability Zone, attach the EBS volume, and recover. In this scenario, RTO is typically under 30 minutes. In this case, RPO is zero because the EBS volume was recovered.

2 - Minimum RTO for a single region outage


Backup and restore (RPO in hours, RTO in 24 hours or less): Back up your data and applications using point-in-time backups into the DR Region. Restore this data when necessary to recover from a disaster.

Pilot light (RPO in minutes, RTO in hours): Replicate your data from one region to another and provision a copy of your core workload infrastructure. Resources required to support data replication and backup such as databases and object storage are always on. Other elements such as application servers are loaded with application code and configurations, but are switched off and are only used during testing or when Disaster Recovery failover is invoked.

Warm standby (RPO in seconds, RTO in minutes): Maintain a scaled-down but fully functional version of your workload always running in the DR Region. Business-critical systems are fully duplicated and are always on, but with a scaled down fleet. When the time comes for recovery, the system is scaled up quickly to handle the production load. The more scaled-up the Warm Standby is, the lower RTO and control plane reliance will be. When scaled up to full scale this is known as a Hot Standby.

Multi-region (multi-site) active-active (RPO near zero, RTO potentially zero): Your workload is deployed to, and actively serving traffic from, multiple AWS Regions. This strategy requires you to synchronize data across Regions. Possible conflicts caused by writes to the same record in two different regional replicas must be avoided or handled. Data replication is useful for data synchronization and will protect you against some types of disaster, but it will not protect you against data corruption or destruction unless your solution also includes options for point-in-time recovery. Use services like Amazon Route 53 or AWS Global Accelerator to route your user traffic to where your workload is healthy. For more details on AWS services you can use for active-active architectures see the AWS Regions section of Use Fault Isolation to Protect Your Workload.


Font: 

https://aws.amazon.com/pt/blogs/database/amazon-rds-under-the-hood-single-az-instance-recovery/
https://aws.amazon.com/pt/blogs/database/amazon-rds-under-the-hood-multi-az/
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/wellarchitected/latest/reliability-pillar/plan-for-disaster-recovery-dr.html
https://aws.amazon.com/pt/blogs/database/implementing-a-disaster-recovery-strategy-with-amazon-rds/

